---
layout: post
title: "John Keats - Nature Poems by John Keats"
date: 2024-12-30 12:00:00 -0000
author: John Keats
quote: "Ode to a Nightingale"
subject: Nature and the Sublime in Literature (18th–19th century)
permalink: /Nature and the Sublime in Literature (18th–19th century)/John Keats/John Keats - Nature Poems by John Keats
---

Ode to a Nightingale
My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains
   My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk,
Or emptied some dull opiate to the drains
   One minute past, and Lethe-wards had sunk:
'Tis not through envy of thy happy lot,
   But being too happy in thine happiness,—

Thou art not so long a space
   But that I can see thee fly away;
And in this drawn-out funeral of the sky
   Breathe out thy own sweet identity.

So sensitively I feel,
   For time is so fleeting, so dark and pale,
Whereas the day calls out to where I pass,
   And in the golden air doth sigh,
When thou art free, I shall not feel it fly.


Ode to Autumn
Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness,
   Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun;
Conspiring with him how to load and bless
   With fruit the vines that round the thatch-eves run;
To bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees,
   And fill all fruit with ripeness to the core;
To swell the gourd, and plump the hazel shells
   With a sweet kernel; to set budding more,
And still more, later flowers for the bees,
   Until they think warm days will never cease,
For Summer has o'er-brimm'd their clammy cells.

Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they?
   Think not of them, thou hast thy music too,—
While barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day,
   And touch the stubble-plains with rosy hue;

Then in a wailful choir the small gnats mourn
   Among the river sallows, borne aloft
   Or sinking as the light wind lives or dies;
And full-grown lambs loud bleat from hilly bourn;
   Hedge-crickets sing; and now with treble soft
The red-breast whistles from a garden-croft;
   And gathering swallows twitter in the skies.


To Autumn
O Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness,
Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun;
Conspiring with him how to load and bless
With fruit the vines that round the thatch-eves run;
To bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees,
And fill all fruit with ripeness to the core;
To swell the gourd, and plump the hazel shells
With a sweet kernel; to set budding more,
And still more, later flowers for the bees,
Until they think warm days will never cease,
For Summer has o'er-brimm'd their clammy cells.

Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they?
Think not of them, thou hast thy music too,—
While barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day,
And touch the stubble-plains with rosy hue;
Then in a wailful choir the small gnats mourn
Among the river sallows, borne aloft
Or sinking as the light wind lives or dies;
And full-grown lambs loud bleat from hilly bourn;
Hedge-crickets sing; and now with treble soft
The red-breast whistles from a garden-croft;
And gathering swallows twitter in the skies.


The Grasshopper
O thou who passest thro’ our vallies in
   Thy Chariot of the Sun;
   Hear and see me—thou who knowest
   That ‘tis that I would call
Forth the fires of love, in thee,
Which flame and glow with all the treasures
Of this fair abundance free.

Up in yon mountain sky,
In the creeks and the brooks
Splashing down with effortless grace,
May thy voice be ever bright,
A sound which shall never cease in watching
   Over the hearts that make and mar it;

And over the thoughts that breathe
Upon the winged soul of gold.


The Eve of St. Agnes
St. Agnes' Eve—Ah, bitter chill it was!
   The owl for all his feathers was a-cold;
   The hare limp'd trembling through the frozen grass,
   And silent was the flock in woolly fold:
   Nay, gazing up at heaven, I beheld
   The glittering stars, both in the green earth,
   And the gates of heaven, through which I walked,
In that cold night stillness of the world.

When in tranquility I laid me down,
   Wrapt in my dreams, my visions waking,
I dreamed of nature hiding in the Earth,
   The fragrance of the flowers, the touch of dew,
   The quiet melody of the scented breeze.


Hyperion
A greater work is not in this book,
   Nor with a starving heart—a thirst for peace,
   The winds to blow in stillness' hair--
Among the fallen leaves of Hyperion.

Therefore the shadows lose their hues,
   And all the colors pass to make my faith
To cry upon the silent hair of gales,
   To find the bond and bind it throughout the universe.

Thus with humility of heart as gentle hands
   I clasp thy soul in yon bright homes,
Where in the yellow winds of branches sway
   As echoes of the sun upon the earth.


Endymion
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever:
   Its loveliness increases; it will never
Pass into nothingness; but still will keep
   A bower quiet for us, and a sleep
   Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing.

Therefore, on every morrow, are we wreathing
   A flowery band to bind us to the earth,
   As long as we are in the world will keep
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever.


Lamia
There was a nymph, who was a mistress of the stream,
   A shadowy recollection of nature past,
A creature of the bloom—the smiles that gleam,
   A spirit which like an evergreen,
In the depth of a hollow glade did cast,
Of night light the shade of golden trees,
   The fearless breeze that blows thro' boughs and bows.


Ode on Melancholy
No, no! Go not to Lethe, neither twist
   Wolf’s-bane, tigers, or the flower of wisdom,
   To see and feel the nature come—
With that unique deep silence, be our ease,
   The blessing of the spring and summer sunlight,
So that we may dispel our woes into the sweet light.

For to the hearts that have been ever pained,
   To pain and pleasure thou dost sing along,
To light that's cerulean, both fire and gauge,
   Which thus has made the descant to be clear.


La Belle Dame sans Merci
O what can ail thee, knight-at-arms,
   Alone and palely loitering?
The sedge has withered from the lake,
   And no birds sing.

O what can ail thee, knight-at-arms,
   So haggard and so woe-begone?—
The squirrels have all gone,
   And the grass has ceased to wave.

I see a lily on thy brow,
   With anguish moist and fever dew,
And on thy cheeks a fading rose
   Fast withereth too.


On the Grasshopper and Cricket
The poetry of earth is never dead:
   When all the birds are faint with the hot sun,
And hid in cooling trees, and when the beat
   Of the thundering sea is no longer heard,
The grasshoppers, singing of the joys of May,
   In summer's heaviest hours are heard alone—
So cricket’s song fulfills the time of time.

And the summer darkens around us,
   O where the world lies as the heart beats on—
And when the sunshines are bound by a day of light,
   The breezes of the morn, toward evening come.


Bright Star
Bright star! Would I were steadfast as thou art—
   Not in lone splendor hung aloft the night,
And watching, with eternal lids apart,
   Like nature’s patient, sleepless Eremite,
The moving waters at their Priest-like task
   Of his own soul’s serenity,
   And once again among the stars, thou art
The spirit of glorious reality.

- John Keats
