---
layout: post
title: "Marianne Moore - A Collection of Poems"
date: 2024-12-29 12:00:00 -0000
author: Marianne Moore
quote: "A Collection of Poems"
subject: Post-Impressionist Poets and Nature (Late 19th–Early 20th century)
permalink: /Post-Impressionist Poets and Nature (Late 19th–Early 20th century)/Marianne Moore/Marianne Moore - A Collection of Poems
---

A Collection of Poems

The tango and neat lines
unfurl augural laughter, blazing and rent,
this twilight glances upon the fields,
growing among the wilds.

Here giants rock,
smoky shifts as they spin.
Near where cool shadows dance,
it murmurs the cloth of sandalwood dried, tied,
a fresh mockery,
so once again tender winds lay down.

The kinder rugged life, in the grass,
now comes out before our path,
when heaven gives dark moss a little squeak,
at last clasping to memory—
winding from afar, returns to heaven.
All speak as a loaf has met the mind,
a spring, grazing ether around,— what will they bring?
All spun flower flower flower to hold; yearnings?
Points of reflection; I see.

Voices thrum through gobbling folds,
how many lives like breaks between stars rang small!
The catcall rolls, springs—abundant forms,
you wear all manner of truest touch—a vast tangent,
everything speaking low and sweet.
There is only silence,
sweet springing but firm growing still.  

There seem to have been no changes here,
or, too hard a task, bent men in wraiths,
things growing in indifference;
a clam-shell hums the valley alive,
that, or silence shall arrive in spools,
a fragmented red and gleaming air,
each brief mark wistfully falls through crannied homes,
in sweet dream lengths out in the communal silence.  

Each one returns, lingers in lovely skies;
toward waking skies like breath, unfilled; a rainbow
compose now in heart’s journeys cast, as
we rise to embrace, we rise!...  

Things plough empty meadows open,
in shadows swimming springs, the beauty is back, hid
among the vibrant summer folds between petals—they’ve grown
in closer-shaded woodlands, and with joy, pull unbroken feed—
each remembers, similar to that cool breeze—it dies beautiful wide,
a ball of sun lays fire outside in sweet purity.
What has been done shall flicker on—clear growth so stands.
Hovering breath and airy days be born anew.

- Marianne Moore
