---
layout: post
title: "Ralph Waldo Emerson - Poems"
date: 2024-12-30 12:00:00 -0000
author: Ralph Waldo Emerson
quote: "The Rhodora"
subject: Philosophical Nature Poetry (19th–Early 20th century)
permalink: /Philosophical Nature Poetry (19th–Early 20th century)/Ralph Waldo Emerson/Ralph Waldo Emerson - Poems
---

The Rhodora

On being asked, whence is the flower?

In May, when sea-winds pierced our solitudes,
I found the Rhodora in the woods,  
Spreading its leafless blooms in a damp nook,  
To please the desert and the sluggish brook.

The purple petals fallen in the pool  
Made the black water with their beauty gay;  
Here might the red-bird come his plumes to cool,  
And court the flower that cheapens his array.

Rhodora! if the sages ask thee why  
This charm is wasted on the earth and sky,  
Tell them, dear, that if eyes were made for seeing,  
Then beauty is its own excuse for being:  

Why thou wert there, O rival of the rose!  
I never thought to ask, but, in my soul,  
I felt the impulse of my being grow,  
And both the flower and I were one, behold!  




The Sphinx  

A riddle of the earth is this,
The great, unfathomed sea,  
We tremble at the murmur’d sound,
Of its great mystery.

What is she, this eternal sphinx,
That shows her face to man,  
And smiles with pleasure at his toil  
And dares him to expand?

Her benevolence in size,
The vapors climb her breast,  
She lures him with her charm,
And overwhelms with the best.

For she is old and wise,
And life and death are hers;  
The sky she mirrors in her face,
And, in her smile, she stirs.




The Snow-Storm  

Announced by all the trumpets of the sky,  
Arrived the snow, and, in the window, show,
A great white world, proud in her purity.  
The -- great and small -- lose their identity  
And are but pivotal points that glide and go.

Hoping it's not quite deception, dear,
I look outside and see the path of light.
What was a tree, with branches wide and clear,  
Is now a cloister’d — haunting, wretched — sight.

The snow has come with power of a destructive force
And whispers all the sounds of the world beneath
Yet hides them away in sands of silvery remorse:
How lovely is this cold derangement, sweet beneath.

I stand and watch this riddle of white rain,
The door of silence swings and all is still again.




Nature  

To live is so sublime,  
All nature is a poem;  
The wilderness with it’s seed,  
Brings men such vivid cataclysm.  

Each detail, a grand metaphor,  
Illuminates the shadows of the mind,  
With contrasts of light and darker lore,  
Brings us deeper — and we unwind.

Yet, thou that art so high,  
With stars in yonder sky,  
How shall thy beauty move our feet?  
When bliss confounds the running beat?

The woods proclaim that everything  
May spring from silence into song;  
And every bird and living thing  
Invites us to it’s heart, our own.




The Torrential River  

The river; a glorious ribbon, certain, flowing down  
Unfathomable, red upon the shore!  
How strong the twist, and how clear, and how wise  
She twirls unsophisticated with the moon—on the hill it shines.

One single wish, within its swaying course,  
To reach the everbound, spreading out,  
Fulfilling every turn and curve  
Until the final breath of this earthly existence.

And, through the autumnal foliage that lets 
The silver flash, there bursting of the spring,  
The heart, the nature bleeds, while bough and brach,
Withering underneath the autumn’s stony dash.




The Humble Bee  

I love to see the humming bee  
In morning’s splendor wreathed,  
Drilling backward through the scent  
That sanguinely it hath sheathed.

Through hollows and gilded flowers,
And luscious pearls in dew alive—  
I can see it, soft, and brisk,  
With grace it glides and quickly thrives.

It’s wings hum with cheerful tunes,  
Like fairies in the noontide glow,  
And ruins not the petals, fair  
But pulls at strings; fly high and low.

Through gardens, dimmed of all their light,
The little wanderer sips and glows;  
A vision from the realm of dreams,
Comes forth to haunt us as it goes.




Woodnotes  

O, from the field, encouched, she springs,  
Between the hills that bid her stay,  
And though the sun refuses all,  
She rises from the earth, a ray.

Her sweet notes, though they steep the air,
Are savage, too; on melodies  
She flits with courage and with ease,  
Thro’ hidden nooks, from thicket fair.

Allur’d by shadows of the woods,  
She sports, and unregarded sings  
To eyes that gaze until the sun  
Is lost amid her gleamy wings.

O, when the world is weary made,  
And throbs and rings with broken pleas,  
How could I dart, with song-sweet spright  
Into the peace, and call it ease?




The Forest  

Within the woods beyond the rise,  
Where shadows meet and fall in folds,  
The giant oak with branches wide,  
With warrior strength and heart of gold.

He lifts his crown; in silence high,
He stands, though storms shall beat him down;  
And through thick night when all is sigh’d—  
He wields the stars without a frown.

Through trails of death and through life’s fight  
He wins the melody of the fields;  
O that your kids might learn the fight!  
To hold the ground till heaven yields.

The forest breathes; how still it seems,  
When tempests roar; and what so still!  
Hoping makes way amid these dreams,  
He walks on earth, and God is still.




Brahma

If the red slayer think he slays,  
Or if the slain think he is slain,  
They know not well the subtle ways  
I keep and pass, and turn again.

Far or forgot to me is near;  
Snow is the summer’s blood;  
And I, the hind that men hunt here,  
I am the mount that men outline.

The east and west in me combine;  
The old and new inspire.  
In the first spark of thought divine,  
I am the sea and the shore’s empire.

And the low in me is the best;  
The leaf is all — soy, the tree,  
In me is all opposites, —  
I love and hate like changes see.




The Sea

Loud and deep, oh deafening calm!  
Which drowns the melodies we ask;  
Each wave and each breaking salve,  
With tender breath, wears beauty’s mask.

But here again, the wordless song,  
That murmurs deeply far beyond,  
Conscripts the eyes and voice of man  
To suffer through what dares respond.

Through sylphs, unseen, the spirits play,  
And graces breathe in shadowed forms;
'Twixt ebb and flow, we stay and sway,  
Enwrapped within this band of storms.

Nor wide the winds nor far from shore,  
All seasons shine their wondrous forces;  
O sweet embrace of Mother’s lore,  
Yield here; this tide respects your courses.




Days  

O days, possessors of the human heart,
What grave respect thou dost command!  
Symbols of our sorrows and vibrant part,
You mark the fading track — as we stand.

But, nothing past is but the tomorrow.  
O days, that should remain so calm,  
Teaching us the lessons of our sorrow,  
And all that glides, and fails to come.

These marks, of each brief hour the minds devise,  
Can linger in the thoughts that tide  
Like visions seen, like fractured skies,  
And dreams we hope in sorrow, floating wide.

May I bask beneath the sunlight’s rays,
Which shall in turn, return day’s flight;  
And find within our life, sweet play,
A harmonious symphony tonight!

- Ralph Waldo Emerson
