---
layout: post
title: "Elizabeth Bishop - Welcome to this World"
date: 2024-12-29 12:00:00 -0000
author: Elizabeth Bishop
quote: "Welcome to this World"
subject: American Modernism and Nature (1910s–1930s)
permalink: /American Modernism and Nature (1910s–1930s)/Elizabeth Bishop/Elizabeth Bishop - Welcome to this World
---

Welcome to this World

The woods are beautiful today,
I know like a roadside store lingered 
about green trees.  Hiding around 
a circular spot through brook along droves—
decayed foliage thickened lurking all along.

Here in the clouds — floating still,
not pleasant despite of saying so.
Look again each day is a circle, every step away
bodies prepare to turn from non to so
this is this—measured of sleigh and minds.

I watch myself and thunder,
straining as they cause sharp points,
neck knitted round with lost sounds,
corners of clear memory torn,
like rivers escaping seats called for
from amongst pleasant furrows bruised away
in breaths that I created so sure.

The gift thrives; 
each dawn opens old lines revealed,
folding wounds still afloat as should—
a rainbow’s gain lightly feigned,
you shall discover there’s more done. 
What balances the trees for each minute,
will answer near to giving dreams heavier
as I lost my way through details singing in and out—
you fall bringing me of walking slowly,
from small birds shooting above,
all whirling a bright noonday.

Who had thought to wait thrown behind,
trying there again to drown out color, inviting?
Would they dare enter here?
Come seek the branches waving one,
held around smoke will die, more silence.
Insert puzzles climbed out in rediscovery
and is fading without thought of drifting.
Do you know them?
What is sense? There’s proof beside what’s born. 
Warm shades how brightly colored -
fall hereit is hoping all speaks back.  
Try walking through—heaven of songs;
you’re alone—explore; silence offers a garden
always waiting for an next down.
Or join how tightly with hear
clouded breathing sound, beneath still trees no fails, a love,
behind me, out here with all voices,
a splendid giving ahead.  

But really visit!  Take your sheet,
may time hold steady, don’t wander;  
it does seem so alive,
what passes aware for all followed life, at last,
you’ll know for each color where taste leads the way.  
Enter into row upon row,
always, whether or not to dream home,
you may breathe astonished dreams, remain -
a little from the road still spoken—and
down your hand belongs holding as a heart can.  

See nothing but each space. 
Listen how merely lives respond laughing bland on
silk crisper sunrise up mounts on brightly pouring,
daring much stems turning mine returns now, boats lifting.  
What a warm embrace, how bare the whole world,
everything shall be root a deep beside a place.  
What hands contend return bold definitions,_past words blossom done—What landscape dance returning gravitational moon bright.
Come now as moments carry,  
bending upon their own crossed minds.
Oh, my god.  This is truly thickened secrets!  
Just hold --- catch each grain of what matters, the road flows.

- Elizabeth Bishop
