---
layout: post
title: "William Wilfred Campbell - Nature Poems"
date: 2024-12-30 12:00:00 -0000
author: William Wilfred Campbell
quote: "The Great God Pan"
subject: Canadian Nature Poets (Late 19th–Early 20th century)
permalink: /Canadian Nature Poets (Late 19th–Early 20th century)/William Wilfred Campbell/William Wilfred Campbell - Nature Poems
---

The Great God Pan

As ancient as the hills,
    As deep as the flowing sea,
As powerful as wind,
    As silent as a whisper,

So sleeps the heart of man.

And, like the world,
    In the silence of the night,
Through the hidden mystery,
    In the wilderness of thoughts,

The great God Pan will rise again.



A Night in June

O, the sky is full of light,
    And the moon is rise in splendor;
Among the trees, a whispered tone,
    In twilight's soft surrender.

O, the breeze is whispering low,
    And the stars are flinging bright,
As the silver threads of darkness flow
    To weave another night.



The Plains

O, the wide, wild plains, untamed and free,
    Where the winds blow wild and the shadows flee,
Where the blue of the sky meets the green of the grass,
    And the sunlight showers in a golden mass.

There the larks are singing, the river runs,
    And the heart of the earth beats with the sun,
Where the clouds come sailing, the shadows creep,
    In the vastness of nature, the soul may weep.



The Lakes of the North

Amid the mountains, in their embrace,
    The lakes of the north are a serene place,
Reflecting the sky in a crystal blue,
    With the whispering breezes that ever renew.

Like gems in a crown that glitter and glow,
    So clear is their surface, so pure is their flow,
A haven of rest for the weary soul,
    In the heart of the wild, they play their role.



The Snow

O, the snow, the beautiful snow,
    As white as a dream on the earth below,
Wrapping the world in a silent shawl,
    Enfolding it softly, embracing it all.

With a hush like a prayer that lingers on,
    It covers the earth till the night is gone,
Turning the mundane to a world so bright,
    With the warmth of a vision and the strength of light.



The Forest

In the heart of the forest, in silence profound,
    Where the sunbeams glimmer and the shadows abound,
The trees whisper stories of ages gone by,
    As the winds weave a music that sweeps through the sky.

With leaves all a-twinkle and branches that sway,
    In the embrace of the earth, I wend my way,
And listen attentively to nature's own tune,
    Where harmony dwells ‘neath the sun and the moon.



Nature's Call

O, the call of the wild, inviting the heart,
    To step from the city with all its fine art,
To roam through the valleys and wade through the streams,
    And find in the forest the truth of our dreams.

In the whisper of leaves and the rush of the brook,
    In the flight of the birds and the stillness of nook,
Nature calls to us softly, once more to return,
    To breathe deep the magic, and courage to learn.



The Autumn

O, the beauty of autumn, so rich and so rare,
    Inspiring the spirit in the crisp autumn air,
Where the leaves turn to gold and the pumpkins grow bright,
    And the shadows grow softly in the fading light.

With the harvest so bountiful, the days short and sweet,
    In the heart of the season, our souls are complete,
For nature’s own tapestry shines in a glow,
    As we linger in wonder and cherish the show.

- William Wilfred Campbell
