---
layout: post
title: "Percy Bysshe Shelley - Nature Poems of Percy Bysshe Shelley"
date: 2024-12-29 12:00:00 -0000
author: Percy Bysshe Shelley
quote: "Ode to the West Wind"
subject: Romanticism (Late 18th–Mid-19th century)
permalink: /Romanticism (Late 18th–Mid-19th century)/Percy Bysshe Shelley/Percy Bysshe Shelley - Nature Poems of Percy Bysshe Shelley
---

Ode to the West Wind

O Wild West Wind, thou breath of Autumn’s being,
Thou, from whose chafed lips, blue heavens winnow,
The squadrons of the storm, scattered and revealed,
To thee I cry; thou wanderer of the sky,

With the leaves that lay in the palaces of the dead.
Be my poet and my end.
I see the beauty of life returning.
O Wind! Be my voice and my light.

---



To a Skylark

Hail to thee, Blithe Spirit!
Bird thou never wert—
That from heaven or near it
Pourest thy full heart
In profuse strains of unpremeditated art.

Higher still and higher
From the earth thou springest
Like a cloud of fire;
The blue deep thou wingest,
And singing still dost soar, and soaring ever singest.

---



The Cloud

I am the daughter of Earth and Water,
And surprise in the sky;
I am the daughter of the sun.
I am the vapour that rises,
And I am the rain that falls!

Man is only asleep;
But I awaken the germs of spring,
I am the spirit of sun and moon,
Of wind and ocean;
I am the lover that loves the flowers!

---



Lines Written in the Bay of Lerici

If the spell of the sea, like a boisterous bride
Swelleth through my senses, and whispers sweet
To me, heedlessly at a wild waterside,
I shall die of rapture at the sea’s retreat.

From the blue depths of heaven the sea breaks forth,
From the sand and the pebble, a brown and white pearl,
To the shore hastens, to the land trembles.
The waves dance in chorus, in delight and mirth.

---



The Seasons

Come thou, O Spring, of the dusky boughs,
Thou who risest beyond the crystal glow,
Of the morning stars of the sea;
With the dawn is thy reign, and thy light is bright,
In the heart of the blossom and beneath the dome.

O, come thou, and dance with the flowers,
Reveal all thy treasures and bounties to me!
---




Mont Blanc

The everlasting universe of things
Flows through the mind, and rolls around the heart;
The glorious light of the sun, in its great reign,
Is not less sacred than the starry night,
In every cloud and sky, a soft smile.

This secret is that every time
The earth is naked, beneath itself,
A magnificent beauty swells to rise,
And we are gems brightened by the night.

---




A Summer Evening Churchyard

Let me seek from the shade of this sepulchre
To take refuge, and like the evening sky
Hear the sunset beginning to murmur, and lay
My head on the tomb, as a child on its play.

I will lay my head where the daisies grow,
And the violets dance in the dew;
It is better there than where fields are bright,
And the picture of sorrow is shown.

---




The Snake

A snake slid silently through the grass;
O, I remembered poets in the past,
And the joy of nature unfolded my soul,
To the sun’s light, through the air it ran,
And lost itself in the shade of the oak.

I watched it coil with grace,
As life flowed barely grasping joy,
And learned to breathe in every breath
Of the silent song of its breath.

---




Epipsychidion

The spirit of our life is in the mountains;
Ay, the bright rivers tumble, running in delight,
So that of the wild seas that flow over, I sing of thee,
O! melodious heart of the sky!
Through thee I see the seasons’ wonder.

A voice without an end signifies our souls,
Thy beauty lives beyond death and time—
Let there be grateful, dwelling in the skies, 
In every crest and every wave that lies.

---




The Witch of Atlas

Through the mountains, with thy wild beautiful eyes,
I wander unseen amidst the blooming thyme;
Thou bringest me visions, fair and lost colors,
Of images that are dreams of the loveliest kind.

Each turn of the path reveals a brightness,
Where I see you dance before me, ethereal and nigh;
With flowing locks that are hues of the sunset sky.
I embrace thy spirit, dance thou, lovely witch!

---




The Invitation

O! to join in the secret dance,
Where the rivers sing their songs,
And the leaves whisper my name;
Come, let us wander, to a place
Where silence holds the joy of nature best;
To feel the waves of the quiet night.
---

- Percy Bysshe Shelley
